

Experiment psuedocode


The experiment will be setup across multiple different computers where some have 240 hz and others only 120 hz. Do their audio devices work? is it hardware specific or is that patch necessary?

At the start of the study the participant will recieve 2 blocks. Their first block will be either animals or objects (animate or inanimate). The block order will be different from the participant before them (to ensure end data has roughly half participants that did animals block first half that did inanimate first). This will be within subjects participants will complete both blocks

There are 4 types of stimulus in this study, the only ones the participant is aware of will be their target group and the distraction. In the animate block they will need to react to black and white images of animals popping in and out of the screen. They will have to resist reacting to inanimate object black and white images. The screen will be split into 4 different areas. The screen will not show the divider but the code will be set up so that no animal can show up overlapping with edges of screen or the inner divider between the 4 equal quadrants. Top left, top right, bottom left bottom right will be the names of the corners. When a participant sees their target their goal is to react to said target within a set time window. They will have 4 keys on the numpad as their reaction buttons. If they press the corresponding num pad button within the time period their reaction will be counted as a hit or point. If they react outside of this window or press the wrong button it will be considered a false alarm. There will be a small white fixation cross in the middle of the screen. It will flash green when the participant gets a hit but do nothing when they react poorly. All stimulus will fade in and out of the screen and potentially hold on the screen for a set amount of time. Fade in time, fade out time, hold duration will all be some fixed time period. The study will have 2 blocks with equal trials per block. the study will have a training window where they will practice the task for less time. How this practice should be designed is still to be decided. 


Now to explain the 4 types of stimulus and their rules that the participant will be unaware of but will be crucial to the design. 1 type is called privileged target. This type will be part of the target group in the block. If block 1 is animals they will recieve a PT that is an animal. There is a stimulus pool of 20 images and paired sounds to go with each image. There are 10 animal images and 10 paired sounds. Dog.png goes with woof.wav and so on. there are 10 object images and 10 paired sounds. Bottle.png goes with clink.wav and so on. There will be a 2 PTs chosen per block. For example, block 1 dog and cat block 2 car and cup. These PTs will be taken away from the pool of object leaving the 16 other stimulus in a seperate pool. The Pts appearances will be spread randomly across the block but each PT will appear an equal amount of time. For example, Cat cat dog cat dog dog if the block has 6 trials. One trial can only ever hold 1 of the 2 PTs. However a PT can appear anywhere from some minimum number in a range to some max number in a range. This number should be randomly selected per trial. How many times the Pt will appear in their designated trial will be stored and fixed after random selection for that participants session. Lets assume one participant gets animal block first with 6 trials (trials must be even to ensure equal PT focus trials) in their animal block. They may get dog and cat as PT. The PT appearance order (not count) could be Cat cat dog cat dog dog. The range for PTs in this example is 2-3 as min and max values in the range. For trial 1 cat focus the PT may appear 3 times, for trial 2 the pt may appear 2 times. the number will be randomly selected and stored for later. Let us assume in this example that both cat and dog rolled 3 appearances for each of their 3 trials. Cat will appear a total of 9 times and dog will appear a total of 9 times. The next part involves a rule relating to where in space the PTs will show up in their trial and various appearance slots per trial. Cat may appear 9 times throughout the block but the cat image itself will show up in a designated corner 80% of the time and the rest of the time their appearance will be split equally across the other 3 corners. this is to create a ratio bias towards one corner. The corner will likely be top right. lets say there is a list of [cat, cat, cat, cat, cat, cat, cat, cat, cat] this turns into roughly 7 times where cat will appear in top right. so the list becomes [cat: top right, cat: top right, cat: top right, cat: top right, cat: top right, cat: top right, cat: top right, cat: bottom left, cat: bottom right] (my math or appearance count may be off here) and in this case one corner was left out due to the limited trials and sometimes one non top right corner may have more than the others but in this case the extra will be randomly distributed to one of the 3 other corners. So assume the list is roughly trial 1 3 cat appearances in chronological order. Now we shuffle the cat corner assignments so that the chronological order of when the cat shows up in the top right is shuffled. The chronological order of when Cat is the main PT will not however shuffle. but the inner trial chronological order will remain the same. The same will occur for the dog trials and their corner assignments until ultimately each PT has a roughly fixed ratio of 80% and is randomly dispersed across their focus trials and inner chronological appearances. This order will be stored somewhere later as a sort of slotting key as it will be used later down the line. Another factor is each PT will recieve a fixed time gap amount of time between their images peak transparency (most visible) likely hold dur between fade in and out time, and start of their sound. So sound start is determined by peak transparency. The range of a time gap or SOA sound onset asynchrony will be randomly drawn once at the start of the experiment between a min and max range. Lets use 0.5 and 1.5 as the min and max example. Each pt will keep this time gap for all appearances no matter the corner. Cat may recieve randomly at the start 0.6 seconds SOA. dog may recieve 1.3. This will stay fixed throughout the block. This time + corner slot appearance rule is important for later algorithm designs to place all variable types needed into the experiment while adhering to their rules and constraints and trying to keep things as random as possible. 




The next category of object types is called Priveleged distractor. it is pulled from the other group as the target in a block. if block 1 is animals distractor pool is objects. 2 PDs will be selected from the stimulus pool and removed from the pool. This leaves a total of 12 stimulus remaining. PTs and PDs can only appear in their block. Animal PTs may be cat dog and that blocks PDs may be car cup and these stimulus will be used in the first block but effectively pulled from the pool and not reappear in the second block. Privileged distractors are similar to PTs in that they have time gaps before their associated sounds of SOAs. They also will draw from their appearance min and max ranges per trial. assume they can show up minimum 2 times per trial and max 3 times again but this amount could be changed later. 2 PDS differ in that they can appear in the same trial unlike PTs. they differ in that each instance a PD appears their SOA will be randomly drawn from their soa range rather than fixed throughout the block. So one trial a PD may have 1.4 SOA and in that same trial it may have a .5 SOA. Assume the min max range for PD soa range is .5 and 1.5 here again. These PDs have no corner rules they appear across all corners. PDs have the most constraints with sound and corner bias so these will be placed first throughout a timeline. assume this initial timeline is 20 seconds. nothing can be cut off or start before or after that 20 second content window. PDs will be dispersed first randomly in time across 20 seconds but following the rules and logic expressed above in their paragraph. PDs will then follow in being randomly dispersed throughout corners and times as long as there is no sound overlaps and there is adequate time between stimulus onset appearance. no 2 stimulus should show up at the same time there should be some small gap. Assume 150 ms for now. The algorithm to place these stimulus and their sounds is TBD and an approach that keeps things random yet helps each stimulus fit within a corner and time within content window is desirable. Maybe we could see each corner as their own bin and sound timeline as its own track where sounds cannot align? A PD can appear 150 ms after a PT in another corner. No stimulus should be in the same corner as another at the same time for any length. 

NPT is simply the non privileged targets. No sound will play when these appear so less rules and guidelines for placing them. These can be placed in any random corner. In the animal block NPTs will be the 6 remaining animals from the remaining stimulus pool of 12. In object block the 6 remaining objects will be the NPTs. These will have the same response time window and will still count as points. These may appear within a min max range as well. that range is TBD and is a config variable. 

NPD is simply the non privileged distractors. Very similar to NPT except they serve to distract and in animal block the 6 objects will be NPD. NPDs in one block will be the NPTs in another. 

NPTs and NPDs need to be places in the timeline last.

Some other important factors about this experiment

The participants reaction time should be stored
An event log and timeline should be constructed before being ran to reduce overhead from on the fly assignments and random draws. A run should ideally be seeded and if this adds too much complexity it should at least be accurately logged via some file type likely a csv. 
Frame rate should be measured winflip should be used to see when stimulus actually shows up. This experiment will use linux and caching of images and sounds to try to get performance close to millisecond accuracy. 

The experiment will run across multiple computers and ideally have a 2 second buffer with nothing before or after it. so 24 second long trials but only 20 sec content window. Buffer times and content window should be adjustable configs

some way to stress test worst case unlikely scenarios where max ranges are hit for each trial for 4 categories is needed to test algorithm and make sure experiment runs smoothely. Data collection should be intuitive easy to sort and sift through later. Folder and repo design should be YAGNI minimal and variables and comments throughout but actual lines of code should be simple and intuitive var names. Var names may be long to help human auditing if they clarify. 

pipeline should make sense and anything assumed about ranges and anything else mentioned in the doc should be a config variable tha can be changed later on. The code should be flexible when changes are made. The code should be well documented and an easy preflight bash script ot ensure frame rate is set up right, xorg is used, cpu perf on high, no background processes, other stuff to ensure optimal performance.

there is a static like background image that is simply shuffled pixels that repeat a couplke times to add more noise

before running this PNGS and wavs should be checked for total content wihtin png that isnt empty transparent space and wav files should be equal length and rouhgly same db . Normalizing stimulus should be done outside of exp script in another task


volume levels should be 50/50 between ears

any other ideas would be appreciated. Repo folders should be organized well

idk how to cache and if thats useful for example. Anything vague or unclear please ask

